---
layout: post
title: BLOG
post_title: Battlestar Galactica
date: 2018-10-05
---

I recently watched the 2004 reboot of Battlestar Galactica with my father.  We started with the movie/miniseries and continued into the full four season series. The show was phenomenal.  It took some getting used to, but by the end of the first season I was completely hooked on it.  Every season offers some new challenge for the crew to overcome, and eventually suffer the consequences of.  

The show has brilliant story and some episodes can blow you out of the water, such as Exodus Part II featuring the Adama Maneuver.  The final season's twists make the show worthwhile in themselves, ignoring the vast amount of character development and action sequences throughout the rest of the series that get you to that final point.

Battle sequences feature Vipers flying through space how a fighter should in zero gravity, turning on a dime with their retro-thrusters to destroy incoming Cylon Raiders.  Other fights include Admiral Adama jumping his ship into the atmosphere of a planet, launching his entire squadron of fighters, and jumping back away seconds before slamming a Battlestar into the planet's surface.  If you watch Exodus Part II and don't get goosebumps, there's something wrong with you.  I cannot stress how amazing Exodus Part II is.  Have you watched Exodus Part II yet?  I hope not because watching all the episodes before it make it that much better.

The characters on the show are also very well done.  You have powerful leaders such as Admiral Adama who are not to be messed with, officers like Starbuck who rebel at any decision thrown their way, and ground crew including Galen Tyrol, or "Chief" who is responsible for keeping the Battlestar Galactica functioning and the Vipers flying.

The show also offers a variety of great gags, including but not limited to: seemingly infinite supplies of alcohol, even when food is running low, Doc Cottle having a cigarette in the infirmary in every scene he is in, eating algae, the corners being cut off of some regularly rectangular square things, but not all, and Laura Roslin enjoying her recreational Chamalla Oil.

In short, if you have not watched this show I do not understand why.  It is the pinnacle of science fiction and should be enjoyed at some point or another.  The only disappointment you will feel that the show creates is that it does in fact come to an end.

Go watch Battlestar Galactica,

So say we all.